It's so, so precious, so special, so beautiful. It's very difficult to obtain this art. And in the
Buddha teaching, mentioned, and I'm sure you read, I'm not sure you know, you know that in what is.
So in the teaching said, also think of this precious human body, what we have. Think of the, what
Buddha used examples. Examples to get this. And what Buddha used examples.
In the Buddha, in the teaching said, does the whole, in the ocean, in the big ocean. Ocean, this is
not just an existing story, but it's called in the Vedic, Dapantara, means something impossible,
something can happen. And this is something, it's just to use that examples.
Impossible things can happen in the, in the, in the happens, that examples. It's not something that
happens in the past, but it's all in the present and future, but it's just examples.
So there is total, and total is long lives. I understand total as well as long lives, but this has,
total, total years, like life span. Again, it's just like an, an, an, possible things happen in the
, in the animal levels there. So this total, and also this total is blind, blind as can see.
Every hundred years, total come up, you know, ocean surfaces. So hundred, every hundred, that is
again, other, like as, kind of just that. And you know, in the ocean, there is one wood, wood or y
ork.
In the teaching, say the york, york that has, has hole, or big hole, and it's floating in that
ocean, in that ocean.
And floating, it goes up and down or wherever the wind comes, and that, it goes that direction.
If wind comes from east, it goes west. Wind comes from south, it goes north. I mean, it's just
floating everywhere.
So a hundred years, the ocean comes on the surface, and that hole comes up, and that hole of the y
ork can catch in the net of the total. Catch.
That is very impossible something, but it could be happen. So in the one Buddha use the example,
that even, obtain the British human body is more rare than the total catching his neck in the, in
the, in the, in the york.
When you come hundred years, comes up, so it's dead. At that time, total don't see, total don't
have intention that he like to put his neck into this york, and the york don't have intention that
I like to try to catch the total's neck.
And then it becomes as rain, and never have to be told, but can catch. And that is very impossible
situation, but to get human, this British human body is even more precious than that.
And then Buddha use the examples as a piece. P-E-A, piece. If you put that on the wall, can it be
possible to catch on the wall or stay on the wall?
No, it's very difficult. Again it's impossible. But then Buddha said, even, even that, that to
catch that, you feel on the wall is impossible, but even more, more impossible to obtain a, of this
human body.
How the rain, how break this? How break this? And then in the teaching said, again, in the needle,
in the needle, if you throw this piece on the needle, dry doodle, dry doodle on the, on that needle
, how many times the needle will caught the piece and catch it?
It's very difficult. Not always easy. It's dry, dry pea. Dry pea. That is even to obtain the human
body is more difficult and more precious than the catching the piece on the, or dry piece on the
top of the needle.
Those are the really great teacher Buddha use the examples, how to obtain such this break this
human body. So that's known as, as thinking of the examples of how, how, how difficult to obtain
this break this human body.
Therefore we should have the great joy and appreciation and make benefit with this, what we call.
So that is, and the next one in the teaching said, and take of the numbers of these numbers,
reflect on the numbers of the beings.
And now we are human beings. And among the six beings, we are the one of those six beings. But
according to Buddha teaching, Buddha teaching, other than beings, you know of rams.
The hell ram, hunger ghost ram, and animal ram, and then human ram, asura, and, and, and God's ram,
those six. So now we take number of them. According to Buddha teaching, the number of the hell ram
beings are number less, number less.
And what the teaching said. It's like, justice of the earth. Justice of the earth. And the number
of the hunger ghost rams are like, like sand, sand, sand of the bank of the river Ganges.
Sand of the river of the bank of the, bank of river Ganges. Ganges. And this, the animal ram
numbers are like, as like, I mean, this is an example of that.
The grain of the, grain of the, in it, they make the chunks, chunks, chunks, you know, like alcohol
s, they make it alcohol.
And the way alcohols, we did, what, what, barley, barley. Barley, barley, barley, barley chunk,
chunk, or barley, and after they take out the, the, the, the, the play word, or the alcohol out,
then that become unrelated through that.
So this is so many, so many of those people who made it. So this, the, the animal rams, like that,
it's just so many, heaped up as a, like, bomber.
Bomber, that barley grain, that are used things, so many numbers. To compare of those three low r
ams, the upper rams, gods, human astral rams, is just like rasta on the, on the nail, rasta on the
nail.
That's really how, see, so therefore, even human population is so much, now they talk so much, but
to compare with that, they call it Buddhism, it's not, I mean, to compare with others, it's not
much.
Then you should think of the comparing with human race, but how many people have that, the ten
lectures? Or how many people have the 18 endowments? How many people?
If there is, like, billions, maybe, like, like, maybe, they just say, like, two percent, or three
percent, four percent has eaten, eaten endowments, all at freedoms.
Among that, think of how many people have eaten endowments, it's getting less and smaller and
smaller, smaller and smaller.
So to think of that way, for us, truly we are very important, that's what we call ourselves, once
and while, truly we are important, we are blessed.
Blessed. We have all different motivations. We're trying to keep our body, speech, mind intact
within the state of kindness and compassion, respect and appreciation.
And with mindfulness and all that, it's really so special, so grateful.
Now thinking of this, this endowmentism, it's not just merely kind of intellectual thoughts. If you
think this is mindfulness, it is mindfulness.
If each of you think of that, bring more joy and abiding on that state, it's mindfulness, abiding
on the previous human qualities.
Each of those, you will not ignore it. We highlight of the goodness of ourself and experience and
stay in that status.
It's truly mindfulness. It's mindfulness. That's what's called body, mindfulness of the body.
It's mindfulness of the body and entire thoughts.
So those ideas I've taught two things, don't you?